Add docs for tpv0 removal (#48057)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/testing/unit-testing-mstest-migration-from-tmi.md

---

# MSTest legacy runner migration guide

This guide assists users in upgrading their MSTest tests that rely on legacy test runner in Visual Studio and VSTest, to move to latest MSTest.

### Who is impacted?

Users who upgrade to VSTest 18.0.0 or newer and encounter error:

```plaintext
MSTest v1 run was offloaded to legacy TestPlatform runner, this is typically caused by:
- using .testsettings file
- setting ForcedLegacyMode in your runsettings file
- running Web and Load test (WLT)
- running Coded UI Tests (CUIT)
- running manual tests
- running generic tests

This runner was removed from the product and can no longer be used. 
```

Version 18 of VSTest removed the ability to run MSTest v1 tests via the legacy runner (running MSTest v1 tests via VSTest remains unaffected.). The legacy runner, also called TMI, TPv0, QTAgent, was removed from VSTest and VisualStudio.

### Solving the error

The error can show up for multiple reasons, typically the reasons that are listed.

#### Using .testsettings file

Providing `.testsettings` file to the run will trigger this error. Test settings files are no longer supported in VSTest and you should replace them with `.runsettings` file.

> To migrate from testsettings to run settings you can use the TestSettings migrator tool that is shipped with VisualStudio 2022. See <https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/test/migrate-testsettings-to-runsettings?view=vs-2022>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To migrate from testsettings to runsettings, you can use the TestSettings migrator tool that is shipped with Visual Studio 2022. For more information, see [Upgrade from .testsettings to .runsettings](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/test/migrate-testsettings-to-runsettings).
```
